a fundamental part of the pressure for
censorship and the platforming here on
social media is the fear or apprehension
that allowing people with dangerous
ideas to come on social media will
normalize those dangerous ideas and the
normalization is not something done by
the broadcaster it's something done by
the audience and this hasn't changed
since the days of print media long
before there was such a thing as the
internet or video sharing over the
Internet
why are people afraid of allowing a
Nissen to be on YouTube why do people
want to de platform innocent why are
people afraid of allowing left-wing
political radicals communist extremists
to be on YouTube part of the fear is
that in the same way that a person who
eats bacon and eggs for breakfast every
day can come on YouTube and find a
medical doctor who's willing to tell
them through the camera who's willing to
reassure them that there's nothing
unhealthy about eating bacon and eggs
every day
footnote it's extremely unhealthy DPX
every day it's it's extremely unhealthy
to eat bacon and eggs ever but
nevertheless here on the internet here
on social media you can find reassuring
excuses for your own bad behavior you
can have a completely artificial and
false sense of community and then within
that phony community you can feel that
you're normal it's normalizing for you
because you've sought out selected and
invested Authority in those voices right
so I mean someone who wants to lead the
same kind of lifestyle anisia needs in
terms of his sex life confined and
fastened onto an example like a Nisshin
and even if a Nisshin is coming on
camera and lamenting that his life is a
disaster that he's allowed his sex life
to destroy him even if he's lamenting
that now he wants to go back to monogamy
and just be with his wife whom he calls
his husband um even that people can
react to in this
lysing self-justifying way this danger
what could I tell you this defect in
human reasoning it existed long before
the Internet
my father was a compulsive liar or worse
he was some kind of myth-o-maniac he
lied to everyone
constantly and I can remember one
conversation of many one of many
conversations where I challenged him on
this directly and I said to him look
this is not normal behavior the way you
lied to me and the way you lied about me
I mean as from father to son
that is not normal behavior and you did
this your entire life you know when I
was a child when I was a teenager when I
was in university and you know we
answered back he pointed to a famous
Broadway play called Death of a Salesman
for his generation that was an
incredibly famous script it was
performed as a play it was made into a
hit movie I think that movie won a bunch
of Academy Awards so today that may not
be that famous for people in the
audience but for your parents and
grandparents they all knew this hit play
Death of a Salesman and my father
justified his own behavior as normal by
saying that he was no different from
Willy Loman the main character in Death
of a Salesman
the main character of Death of a
Salesman is a compulsive liar he lies to
everyone constantly and the the play or
the movie it doesn't celebrate this it
doesn't present it as something normal
or positive or good it is presented as
pathetic and tragic and were really
shown a father compulsively lying to his
own son to his own sons plural he has
several sons in the film were shown a
father manipulating and deceiving his
sons for his own kind of ego reasons in
some ways it's a psychologically
stirring and disturbing portrait of a
certain type of personality all right
and my father finds that play finds that
movie and latches on to it and uses it
to normalize himself and he said to me
deadpan serious that you know this shows
the huge type of behavior is normal and
always has been normal he looked for
that throughout the political history of
humanity in fiction and nonfiction he
looks for characters he could relate to
in the same way that someone trying to
justify eating bacon every day can come
on YouTube and find the one medical
doctor out of 10,000 who will lie to you
and say that bacon is healthy that eggs
is healthy there are medical doctors say
cholesterol is healthy it's just not
true it's just not true but sure you can
find one doctor out of a thousand or
maybe one doctor out of 10,000 who
genuinely believes that genuinely has
that everybody's plate and then people
can latch onto that and normalize their
own behavior I'm gonna come back to an
Essene in a sex life when I look at the
left-wing extremists within the Bernie
Sanders camp who've just been exposed
look these people are not real gangsters
these people are not real
revolutionaries real gangsters do not
come on social media and talk about
doing dirt that part of their lives is
secret they don't talk to anybody about
it ever they take it to their graves or
maybe they talk about it as old men when
they're retired okay people who do real
things do not come on social media talk
about it likewise people who would
actually be organizing and engaged in
the kind of illegal revolutionary
activities these guys are talking about
or say communists espionage or
what-have-you
they do not talk about it so what are we
looking at when we see what I think of
sincerely I think of these people
sincerely as dangerous dangerous people
with dangerous ideas on the left-wing
extreme
who are coming on on YouTube I think I'm
looking at people who have normalized
this behavior through watching YouTube
videos of other left-wing extremists
they've repeated this script again and
again all this stuff about GU lags and
guillotines and burning down cities and
the workers taking over the means of
production they have a whole script and
they filmed other people they can talk
to you know in chat forum
in reddit groups discord servers Skype
but you know social media like YouTube
and you now and live-streaming they
found those few other people that can
latch on to and again you can't even
blame the broadcaster entirely because
most of this is coming from the audience
it's the audience reaching out to that
latching on to it and normalizing that
behavior and it doesn't even matter to
them with their mentality if what's
being depicted is a tragedy and a
failure they will look at the total
failures of communism they'll look at
millions of people starving to death
total failure and they will treat it in
their minds as a positive example to
justify their own attitudes to justify
their own passions if you like to
justify their own bad behavior in the
same way that my father is able to
completely overlook that the death of a
salesman is not a happy story it's not a
comedy it's a tragedy specifically it's
the tragedy of a guy who is living a lie
lying to himself lying to others very
deceptive manipulative a compulsive liar
where everyone say that it's showing how
tragic that mentality how horrible this
life is and how it you know in many ways
says it kind of dementing an awful
effect on his sons on his own children
my father finds that play and he finds
Ana justification with the fact that he
lied to me he says to me it's okay that
he lied to me and that he lied about me
that he this way so it even on this
intimate scale not just that he lied to
people at work as part of his career
know that he had these lies than his
whole family it's okay because he found
this tragedy this play that shows how
awful it is to have a family built on
lies and he sees that as good in the
same way the communist revolutionaries
will look at you know whatever whether
it's a documentary or what-have-you
about the collapse of communism the
deaths of millions whether they're
looking at YouTube videos about people
going to prison for stupid you know
terrorist activities that didn't help
anyone and ended up ruining people's
lives or killing people or diving and
they'll latch onto that to normalize
their own bad behavior alright
likewise there are some deep
and guys it's not just celebrities who
have the suction of there are some
people who will look at the lifestyle
and its enhanced and will latch onto
that to justify what they want to do
with their own sex lives this is true
and this is the part of the moral panic
part of people wanting to deep platform
in this Ian all right let really basic
facts initia had a much younger wife she
very rapidly got pregnant with and gave
birth to two children she was a teen mom
she gave birth to both kids she was
still a teenager and then she went into
University and this Ian says he spent
more than $100,000 of his own money on
university tuition for her to get a BA
these days being a full-time University
student is not compatible with raising
two small children at least one of whom
would have been a newborn baby during
that time when she went to university
okay they have a powerful motivation not
just to bring in a third woman sorry the
second woman I guess I should say
whatever not just to be in a three-way
relationship for the sake of sex they
need babysitters they need people to
come and live with them and take care of
their kids because the mother is out
going to university all day every day
and she's got to do homework and study
for exams okay I completely disagree
with what these guys did I completely
morally disapprove
although these guys did guess what I can
imagine I can imagine being in a similar
scenario and making similar ethical
compromises like coming up with the
justification my girlfriend is much
younger than me she wants to get
pregnant have a kid is it hard to think
through that my girlfriend would also
either have a job or be attending class
at the University and she says hey we
really need someone to help us take care
of the baby oh gee you have all these
fans from YouTube one of them will be
very happy to come and move into the
spare room in our apartment or the spare
room in our house and help take care of
the kid and you know whatever we can all
share the kitchen it'll be great yeah
I would never make the unethical
decisions and is he an maid but still my
point is he
you're the kind of temptation justifying
for yourself the series of steps the
series of decisions in this inmate it's
something you and you and you and the
audience could do you don't need to be a
millionaire you don't need to be
amazingly famous like just in its broad
outlines the decisions he made partly
motivated by sex partly motivated by
convenience partly motivated by money
and fame but above all else motivated by
the need to have a live-in babysitter
help take care of your kids all right
maybe someone to help you make youtube
videos also those are temptations we
deal with and there will be people who
latch onto it his example and they use
it to normalize their own behavior right
but we also have to consider the
potential the positive potential of
allowing dangerous people with dangerous
ideas to come on the Internet to AB
normalize their behavior to allow us to
sit and analyze what they've done wrong
for us in the audience to look at that
and think whoa I would never make the
same mistakes he made whoa I would never
make those moral compromises whoa I
would never make excuses for what Joseph
Stalin did whoa I would never make
excuses for putting people in the gulag
decapitating people with the guillotine
whoa and we can't measure the number of
people who respond to that negative
example in that way so I've been talking
about left-wing extremists the
Communists people justifying mass
murderer mass starvation economic
failure and you know revolution from
that side obviously a similar drama
plays out with right-wing extremists and
just miscellaneous terrorists who come
in the internet right but isn't there
some value in allowing those voices not
as selectively quoted and misrepresented
by the you know news broadcaster but
allowing those voices to speak in their
own terms right without editing from
from you know the editorial committee
the editorial committee at a newspaper
or at
a TV station how they want to present it
hearing those people present their own
ideas however insane however incoherent
however amoral so that people in the
audience can sit there and look at this
and say not not normalize it but AB
normalize it fully recognize what's
wrong with this and think wow not me I'm
not going to be like that feel the depth
of alienation the difference between me
and this person right the main reason I
wanted to make videos about a nishan
from the jump from day one was not to
damage an SEM was not to take something
away from his life right but to add
something to my own life to add
something to your lives so we can
reflect on our own lives and the moral
choices we've got to make and the knock
on a consequence of that and think wow
not me this is where I'm different from
him this is where I wouldn't have done
what he did this is where I wouldn't
have made this excuse I wouldn't have
told this to myself I wouldn't have told
this to the girl yeah yeah this is you
know where you really feel the depth of
that difference of that divide you
really you'll get to stare into the
abyss of the alienation between yourself
and that other person and I don't think
the news can do that for you I don't I
think this is part of the wonderful
thing about this kind of this kind of
broadcasting um you know it's true it's
dangerous to have millions of people
signing up for and latching onto these
extremist voices on the left wing and I
see it happening both positively and
negatively really briefly there's a
left-wing communist channel called Mexi
and she was presenting herself as being
full communist Pro revolution Pro mass
murder up until a point she hit a
breaking point and she said look she's
not really she's not really that
left-wing a number of viewers collapses
okay this just happened recently you can
check her channel and see what happen
with that interest she came out of the
closet sing look she's not really cool
with the revolution she's not really
cool with mass murder she's not really
cool with rounding up rich people and
forcing them into re-education camps
Google
she's not cool with it she admits that
and we see her audience collapse from
like 30,000 people a video to 10,000
12,000 something okay on the other hand
I see a channel that is overtly Pro
violence called non-compete and I see
his audience growing and growing and he
openly says that what he wants is to
destroy democracy to destroy capitalism
he wants to force people into
re-education camps
he says she'll abolish the police but
then if you listen to what he's saying
he's only gonna replace the police with
an even more tyrannical and terrible
form of social policing where it's gonna
be a Citizens Committee that goes around
and does all the things the police do
and much more and puts people into
prisons for their thought crimes and so
on this is just reinventing tyranny with
new names new nomenclature new labels
put over the Gestapo knew who you know
put over you know the Russian public
security forces in Russia they kept
changing the name every couple of years
because the Chayka and you know the
earlier terms became notorious so they
kept kept putting a new name on it until
you end up with the KGB in the end you
know these are new names for familiar
forms of tyrannical oppression all right
I see the danger in it and I have
directly spoken to and interacted with
the type of people who are just exposed
by project very tasks within the Bernie
Sanders campaign who have really
normalized this script a script that
ethically and morally is tantamount to
being a Nazi it's morally equivalent to
being a Holocaust denier and being pro
mass murder and progenesis it's that bad
we're talking about left-wing extremism
so bad it's comparable to right-wing
fascist extremism no doubt okay it's a
huge danger but how do we measure the
value of allowing dangerous people with
dangerous ideas to be here on the
Internet
as a negative example for us to respond
to analytically and negatively because
99% of the audience goes to see willy
loman Death of a Salesman it's the drama
I mentioned earlier 99% of the audience
goes to see that player goes to see that
movie and thinks wow
this shows the tragedy of living a lie
of lying to your own children of being
manipulative of being caught in this
myth-making mentality Wow the moral of
this story is I have to be honest even
when it hurts me even when it's in
community the more this story is it's so
important to be honest with yourself and
others even with your own family even on
them two-bit scale or else this is the
tragedy that plays out right like like
optimism isn't an excuse for dishonesty
right you have to face up to the reality
of your life economically in the
business world and also on the intimate
scale of husband and wife father and son
that's the moral of the play 99% of
people understood that and my father is
part of the lunatic 1% or less who take
the exact opposite moral of the story
all right if we have real freedom of
speech for people to upload their
experiences with communist extremism
right-wing extremism every kind of bad
and dangerous idea if we have the
freedom for a mission to upload his
ridiculous experience with destroying
his marriage with letting his sex life
destroy his whole life and so on if we
have that freedom then we also have the
positive potential for you and I in the
audience to learn from that negative
example and live our own lives from this
day forward accordingly